luaSDL
======

Thatcher Ulrich <tu@tulrich.com>

A Lua binary module, for accessing SDL from Lua scripts.  SDL stands
for "Simple DirectMedia Layer", and is a comprehensive, open-source,
cross-platform multimedia API that can be used to produce
professional-quality games.  See http://www.libsdl.org for details.

luaSDL was built using the SDL header files and the tool tolua (see
http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/~celes/tolua/).  luaSDL is designed to
be used with a Lua40 interpreter, with loadmodule support.  See
http://lua-users.org/wiki/LuaBinaryModules .

Lua programs that want to use SDL just need to say
  
	loadmodule("SDL")

before using any SDL stuff.  The SDL symbols (functions, types and
constants) defined by this module are all enclosed in a table named
"SDL".  Otherwise, the API's are as similar as possible to SDL's C
API.  For example, where in C, you would write:

      int ticks;
      ticks = SDL_GetTicks();

In Lua, you would write:

      local ticks
      ticks = SDL.SDL_GetTicks()

See the sample game, meteor_shower.lua, for an extended usage example.
luaSDL omits a few of SDL's APIs, where those API's were not
straightforward to bind, and/or were deemed not essential.  See the
SDL.pkg file for the definitive reference on what API's are supported.

See http://www.libsdl.org for info about SDL, including the C API
manual.


PLATFORM NOTES
==============

WIN32:

The file luaSDL.dll must be somewhere in your executable path, so that
lua40lm.exe can find it.  You can keep it in your current directory,
in your Windows system folder, or somewhere else in your path.

LINUX:

The file libluaSDL.so must be somewhere in your library loading path.
This typically includes /usr/lib and /usr/local/lib, but you can set
the environment variable LD_LIBRARY_PATH to include additional
directories to search; for example "export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$HOME/lib".

NOTES:

* The actual binding is all in libluaSDL.so (Linux) and luaSDL.dll
  (Win32).  The code for this was generated by tolua, from a cleaned
  version of the SDL headers.  See the file "SDL.pkg".

LEGAL
=====

The SDL.pkg file is derived from header files from SDL
(http://www.libsdl.org), which is copyrighted and licensed under the
LGPL.  The rest of this package was written by Thatcher Ulrich, and
has been donated to the Public Domain.  THIS SOFTWARE COMES WITH
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
